#summary How to download and install StripeSpotter

=Programs that must be installed prior:=

==Visual C++ 2008 Express Edition installed:==
Free to download from http://www.microsoft.com/express/

*1.* Listed under downloads

*2.* Then the third tab “Visual Studio 2008 Express”

*3.* In the left column, select “Visual C++ 2008 Express Edition”

*4.* Select a language and then select “Free Download”

*5.* Run the downloaded install file

==wxWidget 2.8.1 installed:==
Downloaded from http://www.wxwidgets.org/downloads/ 
file name:  wxMSW-2.8.11-Setup.exe or wxMSW-2.8.11-Setup.zip
  # Run and install the Setup.exe


-----
= Details =

Now with both Visual C++ 2008 Express Edition and wxWidget installed we can begin to construct the program directory.

*1.* Launch Visual C++ 2008 Express Edition, select “File” from the main menu

*2.* Select “Open” from the main toolbar and then select “File...”

*3.* From this browser Select your main hard drive (typically C:), there will be a folder located in this directory named “wxMSW-2.8.11” open this folder. There will then be folder named “build” open this folder, now open the folder “msw”. In the folder “msw” locate and open the file *“wx.dsw”* (file type: VC++ 6 Workspace). ( C:\wxWidgets-2.8.11\build\msw\wx.dsw )

*4.* Under the main toolbar there is a green “Start” button and next to it a “Solution Configuration” drop-down list box, make certain that this box reads *“Unicode Release”*. 

*5.* Select “Build” from the main toolbar and then “Build Solution”. After Build is complete proceed to next step.

*6.* Select “Open” from the main toolbar and then select “File...”

*7.* From this browser window locate the directory of the Project file source (StripeSpotterProject), there will be a folder located in this directory named “MSVC” open this folder. There will then be folder named “StripeSpotterProject” open this folder, now locate and open the file *“StripeSpotterProject.sln”* (file type: Microsoft Visual Studio Solution). (projects\MSVC\StripeSpotterProject\StripeSpotterProject.sln)

*8.* Just like in step 4 , change the drop-down list box to *“Release”* this time.

*9.* Select “Build” from the main toolbar and then “Build Solution”. After Build is complete proceed to next step.

*10.* There will be a newly created folder now in ( projects\MSVC\StripeSpotterProject\) named “Release”, in this directory the program is ready to be ran using “StripeSpotterProject.exe”!